Vajrasattva practice is very, very important. All the Vajrayana teachings, every Vajrayana teaching
from the Kriya Tantra and all of the devotees in Tantra, Vajrasattva practice is very important,
therefore also is in the Munro practices.
And generally, there are many reasons to practice Vajrasattvas.
One of the principal reasons of the practice for the beginning practitioners, such as many of us,
and as well as also those who are in part already in the part, the practicing Vajrasattva is very
important.
It will withstand our joy, devotion, it cleansing all the negativities and obscurations, obstacles.
It will cleanse and purify.
And that is what teaching says. It is so specific. Of course, generally, we do a lot of, what's
called, there is a lot of purifying practices.
That is in the subtle teaching to you. When I am teaching to you, when I am teaching, I do pur
ifying practices every 15 days.
They gathered monks and nuns gathered together with purifying practices. Also known as Soviet
practices, they do.
And then in Vajrayana teaching, they do also purifying practices. There is many purifying practices
, particularly related with the 35 Buddhas.
35 Buddhas, they do practices, as well as others, other purifying practices.
And then in Vajrayana teaching, then the most powerful, renowned practices, purifying practices, is
through the Vajrasattva practices.
Generally, so that when we practice the Vajrasattva practices, and always in the teaching said, it
will purify all obscurations, negativities and obstacles.
And those obscurations, and of course, there are many different ways to put this, I mean, this is
not just I am talking, but many of these great masters.
Buddha taught many different ways to understand, highlight this, so that we can not track the
mistake.
We cannot unrelated that mistake over powered us. And therefore, there are many different
categories to highlight those.
And those mistakes, generally there is four obscurations in one way. And two obscurations or four
obscurations.
We taught the four obscurations, and many times in the teaching making, particularly when we were
practicing purification.
Those are known as then our listed first four, and then go there with all this four.
First is known as karma obscurations. Karma obscurations by the Dharma.
And the second obscuration is emotion obscurations. And the third obscuration is knowledge obsc
urations.
And the fourth obscuration is habitual obscurations. Those are the four obscurations.
What is karma obscurations? If I translate the karma obscuration as karma as action, obscuration
that comes with action.
Action. These actions, generally, we can perform two ways we can do the mistakes, obscurations.
One is known as the ikora in the Buddha's teaching, those are natural obscurations. Natural obsc
urations and constructive obscurations.
Natural obscurations is in samsara, such as healing is natural obscurations.
Healing or taking lives of others is natural obscurations. Stealing, taking belonging to others is
natural obscurations.
And then deceiving is natural obscurations. There is many like that. Many, those are known as
Or in Tibet, Rangi is natural. He just said it's common sense. One way is common sense obscurations
.
That means it is not good, good for anyone, any standard. Any standard, whether you are believing
or not believing, any standard.
Any standard is natural obscurations, or common obscurations, or natural obscurations, common sense
obscurations.
And there is another obscuration known as constructive obscurations, or guidance, such as Buddha's
teaching.
Teaching in a monastic or the Vinaya rules, there is over 250 rules. Many of those are constructed.
Trying to restrain our mindfulness, our alertness, so that we are not going to run to the old habit
pattern and carry it with that.
We have to do some mistakes with that. Those are known as constructive negatives. Construct.
Such as, there are many, many, for example, such as, of course, now it's commonly accepted in the
Tibetan Buddhism.
It's nothing kind of unusual, but however, for example, in the Buddha's teaching, taking food in
the upper known,
or ordering the monks and nuns, taking food in the upper known is not correct, correct.
And this is, again, it's not that the obscuration or negativity, in a way, general common sense
level, is not an obscuration.
It's not that negative it is. But however, it is obscuration in the sense of the Buddha's teaching,
or the rules, in the guidance, it is obscurations.
And there are many, many others like that. Many, many like that, those are known as constructive
obscurations.
And then, for example, even in each country, it has different laws.
Many of those laws, not necessarily, are common sense negatives, but they created that to protect,
it has some reasons.
And, for example, in some cases, there is like, 50 pipes. And in some cases, if you go over that in
that zone, then we are doing mistakes.
And police will give us the ticket, the speech ticket. And in some areas, there is 65, five.
And then, again, if you go over that, it's wrong. And in some areas, 75.
That is not the naturally common sense, sense negativity, but it's constructive, that's what it's
called.
And in Buddha's teaching, known as natural obscurations, and, sorry, Raghid Khanamatam, and Jaipa
Khanamat.
Jaipa means constructive, something. So anyway, whatever we do, whatever we do, we stay in that
frame.
Whatever we do, it is we are breaking the rules, breaking the rules.
And we are creating the negatives and obscurations. That is known as obscurations.
Because Buddha's teaching, again, although all guidelines, to re-stain our joy, devotion, body,
appreciation, respect, and common sense,
to stay with the hormone and be peaceful to everyone. That is what really it is.
And by Jnana teaching, by Jnana teaching, and by Jnana teaching, all of that,
and then bring up the beauty and the belief, call it, of our natures, ourself, that.
So whatever we do, anything mistake we did, that mistake is known as then the karma obscurations.
I translate the karma obscurations, leejit deva, that is the obscurations.
And the second obscuration is the root of the common obscurations.
That is, I translated, emotion obscurations.
Emotional obscurations is the fundamental cause and the root performing the action obscurations.
These emotional obscurations, then, many of you all know, those are known as five poisons.
And then those are the ignorance.
We put everything as poison. We would have used the metaphor to explaining it is a density, call it
,
a density, like effect, effect. Therefore, we would have used the metaphor, metaphor, poison.
So, ignorance is poison, poison of the end, poison of the arrogance, and poison of the gerunds.
Those are five poisons. Above that, also there is another poison, known as doubt.
There is another poison of the doubt.
And the poison of many times, also some very different belief, wrong belief, this is also a poison.
A poison, what is the effect? It is affecting the peace and the joy and happiness of ours,
of one's own self and all the beings.
Therefore, it is a poison, what we have used.
Ignorant is the fundamental foundation of all the poison arise.
This is what also in Buddha teaching, the cause of suffering truth.
Suffering truth comes from these emotional obscurations over that.
So, it is poison. Ignorant is the cause of every emotion from that start-up.
Ignorant is the drug. Ignorant is very dark. Ignorant is blood.
Ignorant is behind the scenes of every activity that we do, with six poisons or five poisons.
It is like darkness. And from that ignorance, then second, most of the death state is attachment.
Attachment arises from that. And from that attachment, then anger kills.
Anger and all that, generally in the teaching said, is in all the rest of the emotions,
almost a kind of defensive for the attachment, defensive for the protection of the attachment,
protection of the ego-clingers. In a way, ego-clingering is the boss.
They are the instrumental. They are the hiding place of the ego-clingers.
And ego-clinging is attachment. It is a grasp.
From there, then the anger bursts out.
If something is not agreeing with the attachment, with ego, then it is known as the anger.
And something is not attached with you, or argued with you, with you.
Again, ego and jealousy arises.
Jealousy is the combination of the teaching, the combination of the attachment and anger.
United target. Feeling that you are going to lose something,
or there is something that is coming up, going to prevent our ego activities.
And that is the jealousy that is coming up.
And then, and we have some fulfillment, or some success, or some preview of that,
then the ego comes.
Erogan comes is something kind of almost like short superiority of yourself,
among the groups, among the others, you feel some kind of sense of the spirit,
something that is strong, or something important.
That is the ego comes.
Erogan is generally in the teaching making.
There are seven kinds of arrogance, sorry, arrogance.
That can be, arrogance can be.
And those are, I think, by two times, "K.G. But they shall only make it."
And I will list again, so you will know that.
And first is known as small arrogance.
What is small arrogance?
Of course, first is just arrogance.
First is arrogance.
And second is small arrogance.
And third is big arrogance.
And fourth is arrogance, more arrogance from the arrogance.
More arrogance from the arrogance.
And then fifth is some kind of arrogance that fills your self-stone, or "I am, I am that, I am that
."
That arrogance.
And then sixth is known as arrogance of the blind arrogance, arrogance.
Blind, blind arrogance, or, yeah, I translate that, blind, blind arrogance.
The seventh is wrong arrogance, or very wrong arrogance.
So those are the seven arrogance.
But I will go a little bit into that.
Fourth of arrogance is generally, this always, when arrogance comes, you always have some compar
ators.
And therefore, fourth arrogance is something that lower than your self, kind of project to that
individuals,
and feel, "I am that better than them."
Then, "Oh, I am someone that lower than you, or something equal to you."
And we start thinking, "I am that better, or I am equal with these guys."
We have that attitude, or that kind of known as them, that arrogance, just simple arrogance.
And then second arrogance is small arrogance.
Small arrogance is something that you are projecting to your equal person.
Similar standard, but you start thinking, that even though this person is good,
"I am better, I am better, I am quite good, I am quite good."
Having that attitude in the mind, and that is, I mean, that comes with arrogance.
That is the second arrogance, small, small arrogance.
And third arrogance is now with the equal, equal individuals, to see that, and we start thinking,
"I am much better than this, this, I am great, I am great."
Having that attitude is known as big arrogance.
And then, again, we compare it with similar such equal person, but at the same time,
projecting higher than more educated than you.
More educated, more kind of, in a way, more better person than you start, or we start thinking,
"Oh, this is good, that person is quite good, but I am much better than him."
Having that attitude, that kind of attitude is known as the arrogance of arrogance.
And then, the fifth arrogance is, then, this is generally every sentence,
"We all have this arrogance."
In the teaching, you say, "This is the equal community, it's just, I am this."
And then, for that reason, and again, even in lessons, in English, you put,
always, couples, whenever we mention, "I, I is company."
That tells, that tells, among the older, the consonants in the words,
"I standing with God."
(Laughter)
"I am God, crookedly."
That's how it is. That is, just intently, in the teaching, said, "I am that."
That's it. That tells. That is not it.
And the sixth arrogance is, is believing arrogance.
Believing arrogance is, some individually,
properly have the kind of, like, idea that they are someone, someone.
There's no reason that, but, however, that those individually believe,
truly convinced themselves that they are someone,
or someone they appreciate, they feel they are that, "I am that."
Or, "I have that realization. I am the first woman person.
I am the great yogur. I am the great things."
That could be, you know, spiritually kind of connected.
That could be worldly connected.
They're completely kind of convinced.
They believe. They're not just lie-making of that,
but they, themselves, believe that, and act, trying to act with that.
This is done as, then, in the Buddha teaching.
It is something blind, arrogance.
And that happens many times, also. I don't know, you heard that, too.
But many times, we got emails, or I got, or Kim, I mean, we have together,
we got emails, letters, clapping. Many people, say,
"They're my tiddies. I'm material, material.
The future Buddha, upcoming Buddha is my tiddies."
They start, "I'm the material, this and that, and I leave these places."
And the reason, also, we caught up one email.
I think, Lauren, I caught one email saying, "I'm Pema Samba."
Pema Samba is well, and good health, and he's a small man.
Small man! Really, he said, "Please tell that to everyone."
I believe Pema Samba is well and good health.
She got emails. I think, maybe, I'm not sure if you all got it.
She walks in a bicycle shop.
He walks in a bicycle shop, and tells everyone, "Pema Samba is well, well, well, it's true.
This is the one."
And then, before I remember, I told, we told, Master told,
"This is the time when he's on the unit."
And this one man, man really came.
I mean, I was, at that time, ending Haiti I or Haiti, whatever, around that time,
and his own dungeon, which was in New York City.
And I went out, and even he come back.
I come back. There's one temple at that time, and he went back to Tibet.
He tried to follow up on his own dungeon, which he was, or he is.
And so, when I come back, they started, he started jogging.
There's also another, he's on the disciple.
He travels quite a lot in the Western too.
His name is Lama Ricci.
And his name is Cappo's name, Cappo Tutti.
He said, "Cappo Tutti started jogging too."
Lama Ricci is so powerful, even he subdued Dorguetolo.
Dorguetolo.
Dorguetolo, whenever you know, right?
Dorguetolo is at the emanation of Murpema Samba.
So Lama Ricci is so powerful that even he subdued Dorguetolo, he said.
I don't know what he is talking about.
And so, what happened is, because that time,
when he was on the dungeon, he said, "Pipe store, pipe floor, pipe floor."
We are in the pit floor.
We are also in the pit floor.
So any visitor comes, they must come always up there,
so let us know, and then we will go early,
and then if they have appointment, go to see his owners.
That's what we do.
So, Cappo Tutti said, so Lama Ricci said,
"Apranam, somebody is knocking the door."
Knocking the door, the door.
He said, "Who is this?"
They said, "Dorguetolo."
"Who is this?"
"Dorguetolo."
He said, "Dorguetolo."
So he said, "Dorguetolo."
So then when they opened, one hippie man,
a hippie man, he said, "I am Dorguetolo."
And he said, his owner, Dorguetolo is a regent of Burpema Sambo.
Therefore, I like to be recognized,
and glorified, honored that.
He really like to have that, "I am Dorguetolo."
So, could we make an appointment?
So, he got upset, and he maybe yelled something.
So then I think he went, "Wait, wait."
So next time, I think he went up all the time.
Then he came, and I was trans-lateral.
I was trans-lateral, and so he came and he said that,
again, he said that he is Dorguetolo.
He said, "What?"
True his Holiness.
True his Holiness, he said.
In the former life, he was a regent.
He really true, he said.
Former life, he was a regent.
But this time, I am Dorguetolo.
And I like to be, "You please help our honor,
or acknowledge me with that."
And then his Holiness answer was...
He asked for a letter.
Yeah, letter, something.
And so his Holiness answer that,
"If you are Dorguetolo, I don't have to do anything."
So actually, I don't need Dorguetolo.
If you're not, you don't need one.
Yeah, if you're not, you don't need something.
And that's what really he said.
Really he said that.
And then he said, "I'm yogi, I'm hungry,
and we have some food to give me," he said.
And then he told me that,
of course, life is finished already,
but then he said to look something food.
So I went to the kitchen and I bought some fruit
and all that I gave.
So this is really true.
I mean, I think maybe they believe that.
They believe this.
I saw him when he's on the hill, he passed away.
I went to France in the dodo.
When he passed away, I saw him in the dodo.
He is there too.
So that way.
But anyway, this is the story of the blind, the arrogance.
Arrogance.
And during the Buddha time,
there is also one known as kashapa with long hair.
It's not maha kashapa, there's another kashapa known as long hair.
Also really, it's a renowned one.
He has many students too.
But he always believed, it's not that he's pretending that,
but he believed he is something high in relaxation beings.
And he said that, he acted, and he told that to the student,
it's not lying, it's not the same, but he believed that.
So this is known as mopanga, or the blind arrogance.
And then the fifth, the seventh arrogance is long arrogance.
This is certain people have the arrogance that,
kind of like to do the negative activities.
For instance, I said, I can do that.
I'm an expert to kill, to do something.
Kind of like, it's really a very disturbance.
Destruction is not beneficial,
but certain people have the strong arrogance,
strong belief, belief that they can do that.
That maybe they do too.
But really arrogance, they do.
Those are seven types of arrogance.
Whatever arrogance you have,
the call of arrogance is, of course, then what we lost?
We lost the humble and the respect.
Respect, and respect and appreciation is undermined.
At the same time, because of that, we won't grow ourselves.
We won't grow, we won't develop.
In the teaching of Dr. Yu, he said that arrogance is an iron ball.
Iron completely solid ball that won't hold any water.
Water, it just goes out.
You won't, you won't, we won't grow.
We won't learn, we won't develop.
At the same time, then respect and appreciation is become very money.
And that is what arrogance is.